El Comité Provisional es la estructura organizacional de base, total, del movimiento estudiantil organizado, que coordina de forma planificada los esfuerzos individuales de miembros plenos y candidatos a miembros en acciones objetivas.

El Comité Provisional se compone de los órganos que siguen:

- Congreso del Comité Provisional (CCP): Congreso periódico 
- Buró Político del Comité Provisional (BPCP):
	- Comisión de Investigación y Vigilancia del Comité Provisional (CIyVCP) 
- Periódico del Comité Provisional (PCP):
- Secretariado Ejecutivo del Comité Provisional (SECP):

El Comité Provisional es de carácter transicional, y cederá sus actividades cuando el Congreso del Comité Provisional resuelva la formación del Consejo del Partido cumplidas bases estrictas:
- Existe un numero superior

En orden de lo anterior, el Comité Provisional tiene por objeto y por funciones:

1. Formar cuadros políticos y miembros plenos.
2. Determinar las directrices orgánicas para votar la candidatura de miembros, expulsar miembros plenos y ejercer medidas disciplinarias según corresponda.
3. Determinar las tareas inmediatas del estudiantado.


4. Ningún miembro del partido puede poseer narcóticos, marihuana
5. 
6. No party member can have narcotics or weed in his possession while doing party work.
7. Any part member found shooting narcotics will be expelled from this party.
8. No party member can be drunk while doing daily party work.
9. No party member will violate rules relating to office work, general meetings of the Black Panther Party, and meetings of the Black Panther Party anywhere.
10. No party member will use, point, or fire a weapon of any kind unnecessarily or accidentally at anyone.
11. No party member can join any other army force, other than the Black Liberation Army.
12. No party member can have a weapon in his possession while drunk or loaded off narcotics or weed.
13. No party member will commit any crimes against other party members or black people at all, and cannot steal or take from the people, not even a needle or a piece of thread.

14. When arrested Black Panther members will give only name, address, and will sign nothing. Legal first aid must be understood by all Party members.

15. The Ten-Point Program and platform of the Black Panther Party must be known and understood by each Party member.

16. Party Communications must be National and Local.

17. The 10-10-10-program should be known by all members and also understood by all members.

18. All Finance officers will operate under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance.

19. Each person will submit a report of daily work.

20. Each Sub-Section Leaders, Section Leaders, and Lieutenants, Captains must submit Daily reports of work.

21. All Panthers must learn to operate and service weapons correctly.

22. All Leaders who expel a member must submit this information to the Editor of the Newspaper, so that it will be published in the paper and will be known by all chapters and branches.

23. Political Education Classes are mandatory for general membership.

24. Only office personnel assigned to respective offices each day should be there. All others are to sell papers and do Political work out in the community, including Captain, Section Leaders, etc.

25. Communications--all chapters must submit weekly reports in writing to the National Headquarters.

26. All Branches must implement First Aid and/or Medical Cadres.

27. All Chapters, Branches, and components of the Black Panther Party must submit a monthly Financial Report to the Ministry of Finance, and also the Central Committee.

28. Everyone in a leadership position must read no less than two hours per day to keep abreast of the changing political situation.

29. No chapter or branch shall accept grants, poverty funds, money or any other aid from any government agency without contacting the National Headquarters.

30. All chapters must adhere to the policy and the ideology laid down by the Central Committee of the Black Panther Party.

31. All Branches must submit weekly reports in writing to their respective Chapters.
8 Points of Attention

    Speak politely.
    Pay fairly for what you buy.
    Return everything you borrow.
    Pay for anything you damage.
    Do not hit or swear at people.
    Do not damage property or crops of the poor, oppressed masses.
    Do not take liberties with women.
    If we ever have to take captives do not ill-treat them. 

3 Main Rules of Discipline

    Obey orders in all your actions.
    Do not take a single needle or piece of thread from the poor and oppressed masses.
    Turn in everything captured from the attacking enemy. 
